Welcome back.
In this video we'll use D-3 to add event listeners to the Dom as well as to insert and remove elements
from the DOM along the way.
We'll also take a look at two methods we didn't get a chance to explore in the previous videos to start.
Let's take a look at some code.
If you'd like to come along here's a link to the HVM Ellen CSSA amusing as well as a link to what the
page looks like.
Live as you can see I've got a simple little note taking app but right now it doesn't do much because
I haven't written any javascript because of this.
Our form is currently broken.
It should add a new note but right now it just refreshes the page.
Let's get this app working in order to do so.
Well we did add an event listener to the form to attach an event listener in D-3.
We use the method like a vanilla javascript add event listener method decrees on method except as its
first argument.
That type of event to listen for and second argument a callback to run when the event is triggered.
Before we jump in and start fixing our form Let's first look at a simpler example of adding an event
listener with D-3.
Here's how we could add a listener for click events to the H-1 tag.
Now when we click on each one we see a message log to the con..
You can't attach multiple Westerner's of the same type to the same selection using on.
If you try to only the most recent listener will run as it will replace any previously existing listener.
This also means that you can remove the listener by passing and now as the second argument to the method.
So in the console we can remove the event message.
We just attached to the H-1 like this.
Now nothing will happen when you click lets get to coding.
I'd like to get the form working in my note app will again need to use the on method but this time we'll
need to listen for submit events.
The first thing we'll need to do is prevent the default behavior of the form.
Since this is what is causing the page to reload the javascript we do this by accessing the event object
as the first element in the callback and then calling prevent default on that object.
However event listener callbacks and D-3 have a different structure which will learn more about later.
For now all you need to know is that you can't access the event through any of the callback functions
arguments.
Instead you need a special property attached to D-3 called D-3 data event.
This object will have all of the methods and properties you expect from the event object.
In particular there is a prevent default method that will prevent the default behavior of the form.
So let's throw that in before we do anything else.
Next let's grab the input using D-3 so that we can access the value inside of it.
Now what if we look at the structure of the HMO.
We can see that each note is really just a tag with a class note along with some text.
So the first thing we need to do is find a new p tag to this list of notes.
We can append a new element to an existing selection using the append method.
This method will append a new element to the selection with whatever tag may be passing.
It also returns and the only selection to you with the appendant elements.
So in order to add Arnaout we need to append a new tag to the divs containing all of the notes.
Give our new P-TECH class.
Note and put some text into it.
This code looks OK so let's try adding another.
Looks like we have a problem.
Our new note doesn't have any text in it.
Can you spot the issue.
I'll give you a moment to look through the code.
The problem is right here where we're calling input text input elements don't have inner text.
Instead the characters the user types are stored in a value property in order to access this data using
D-3 we need to use the property method and pass in the name of the property we're looking for.
In this case of value to refresh the page.
Now things look much better one slight annoyance is the fact that once we submit a new note the form
doesn't clear we can fix this problem by using the property method as a setter rather than a getter.
After appending the new note in this case we want to set the value property equal to distraint cool.
This is looking good.
One last thing if you need to remove elements from the down instead of adding them to the DOM 8:3 also
comes with a remove method that you can call in a selection.
Let's hop into the console and remove all the notes on the page.
That's it for event listeners.
Now it's time for you to try some of this out on your own.
Check out the exercises when you're ready.
Move on to the next section where you'll begin to talk about data binding using D-3.